
# Artefacts for Keywork, 'history'

Of course, lots of my artefacts are not necessarily built by card-carrying historians. I suspect that doesn't matter, right? Anyway...

+ What's Wrong with Writing Essays? Mark Sample. Appears in a couple of different versions online. Ur-text here: http://www.samplereality.com/2009/03/12/whats-wrong-with-writing-essays/ . Crystalizes the issue around essays: we are too much concerned with 'form' and forgetting about 'content', moreover, that 'writing' could mean something far more expansive. The 'textus' bit really struck me back when I first started at Carleton (when I had to learn how to be an academic all over again). No license on the blog post, but the other versions...
+ The Unessay Daniel Paul O'Donnell http://people.uleth.ca/~daniel.odonnell/Teaching/the-unessay  This piece similarly documents problems with 'essays' as they have come to be. What's more, it provides a framework for re-situating them as digital pedagogy, returning agency to the student, and an entirely operationalizeable (if that's a word) set of criteria for assessing work that does not look like traditional forms. Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. 
+ The HeritageJam Andrew Masinton, Sarah Perry, Tara Copplestone, Izzy Bartley http://heritagejam.org An annual two-day event, having just gone through its second iteration, where participants collaborate to make something along a particular theme, from a particular collection, with a decidedly public-facing inflection. Aside from the wonderful things participants make, the Jam rules require them to document the _paradata_ that supports the work. The paradata document draws on a long history in archaeological research of visualizations and making (there is an entire subfield, 'experimental archaeology', which has strong affinities to digital humanities pedagogy and deformance) as codified in the 2009 London Charter of Heritage Visualization (http://www.londoncharter.org/) . Paradata "provide the space through which we communicate ambiguity and transparency, and account for our practices. In explicitly detailing the creator's process, paradata enable openness, making visible the "relationship between research sources, implicit knowledge, explicit reasoning, and visualisation-based outcomes." This offers viewers an insight into the making process, and an opportunity to think critically about how our images are constructed and create meaning about the past."
+ 
